README.md, before:

# Sympytensor

A tool for converting Sympy expressions to a Pytensor graph, with support for working with PyMC models.

# Installation

```text
pip install sympytensor
```

# Examples

## Writing expressions to pytensor
Two functions are provided to convert sympy expressions:

- `as_tensor` converts a sympy expression to a `pytensor` symbolic graph
- `pytensor_function` returns a compiled `pytensor.function` that computes the expression. Keyword arguments to
`pytensor.function` can be provided as `**kwargs`

Use sympy to compute 1d splines, then convert the splines to a symbolic pytensor variable:

```python
import sympy as sp
from sympytensor import as_tensor
from sympy.abc import x

x_data = [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
y_data = [3, 6, 5, 7, 9, 1]

s = sp.interpolating_spline(d=3, x=x, X=x_data, Y=y_data)
s_pt = as_tensor(s)
s_pt.dprint()
```

This generates the following function graph:
```text
Switch [id A]
 ├─ And [id B]
 │  ├─ Ge [id C]
 │  │  ├─ x [id D]
 │  │  └─ 0 [id E]
 │  └─ Le [id F]
 │     ├─ x [id D]
 │     └─ 2 [id G]
 ├─ Add [id H]
 │  ├─ 3 [id I]
 │  ├─ Mul [id J]
 │  │  ├─ True_div [id K]
 │  │  │  ├─ -33 [id L]
 │  │  │  └─ 5 [id M]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id N]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 2 [id O]
 │  ├─ Mul [id P]
 │  │  ├─ True_div [id Q]
 │  │  │  ├─ 23 [id R]
 │  │  │  └─ 15 [id S]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id T]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 3 [id U]
 │  └─ Mul [id V]
 │     ├─ True_div [id W]
 │     │  ├─ 121 [id X]
 │     │  └─ 15 [id Y]
 │     └─ x [id D]
 └─ Switch [id Z]
    ├─ And [id BA]
    │  ├─ Ge [id BB]
    │  │  ├─ x [id D]
    │  │  └─ 2 [id BC]
    │  └─ Le [id BD]
    │     ├─ x [id D]
    │     └─ 3 [id BE]
    ├─ Add [id BF]
    │  ├─ True_div [id BG]
    │  │  ├─ 103 [id BH]
    │  │  └─ 5 [id BI]
    │  ├─ Mul [id BJ]
    │  │  ├─ True_div [id BK]
    │  │  │  ├─ -55 [id BL]
    │  │  │  └─ 3 [id BM]
    │  │  └─ x [id D]
    │  ├─ Mul [id BN]
    │  │  ├─ True_div [id BO]
    │  │  │  ├─ -2 [id BP]
    │  │  │  └─ 3 [id BQ]
    │  │  └─ Pow [id BR]
    │  │     ├─ x [id D]
    │  │     └─ 3 [id BS]
    │  └─ Mul [id BT]
    │     ├─ True_div [id BU]
    │     │  ├─ 33 [id BV]
    │     │  └─ 5 [id BW]
    │     └─ Pow [id BX]
    │        ├─ x [id D]
    │        └─ 2 [id BY]
    └─ Switch [id BZ]
       ├─ And [id CA]
       │  ├─ Ge [id CB]
       │  │  ├─ x [id D]
       │  │  └─ 3 [id CC]
       │  └─ Le [id CD]
       │     ├─ x [id D]
       │     └─ 5 [id CE]
       ├─ Add [id CF]
       │  ├─ 53 [id CG]
       │  ├─ Mul [id CH]
       │  │  ├─ True_div [id CI]
       │  │  │  ├─ -761 [id CJ]
       │  │  │  └─ 15 [id CK]
       │  │  └─ x [id D]
       │  ├─ Mul [id CL]
       │  │  ├─ True_div [id CM]
       │  │  │  ├─ -28 [id CN]
       │  │  │  └─ 15 [id CO]
       │  │  └─ Pow [id CP]
       │  │     ├─ x [id D]
       │  │     └─ 3 [id CQ]
       │  └─ Mul [id CR]
       │     ├─ True_div [id CS]
       │     │  ├─ 87 [id CT]
       │     │  └─ 5 [id CU]
       │     └─ Pow [id CV]
       │        ├─ x [id D]
       │        └─ 2 [id CW]
       └─ nan [id CX]
```

Since we now have a pytensor graph, we can manipulate it like any other pytensor variable. For example, we can apply
graph simplifications using `rewrite_graph`:

```python
from pytensor.graph.rewriting import rewrite_graph
rewrite_graph(s_pt)
s_pt.dprint()
```

The next code block shows the simplified graph. Note that constant folding has been applied, and powers of `x` that
are used in multiple places are now longer computed multiple times (notice how `Pow [id L]` and `Pow [id O]` appear in
several places)

```text
Switch [id A]
 ├─ And [id B]
 │  ├─ Ge [id C]
 │  │  ├─ x [id D]
 │  │  └─ 0 [id E]
 │  └─ Le [id F]
 │     ├─ x [id D]
 │     └─ 2 [id G]
 ├─ Add [id H]
 │  ├─ 3.0 [id I]
 │  ├─ Mul [id J]
 │  │  ├─ -6.6 [id K]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id L]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 2 [id G]
 │  ├─ Mul [id M]
 │  │  ├─ 1.5333333333333334 [id N]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id O]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 3 [id P]
 │  └─ Mul [id Q]
 │     ├─ 8.066666666666666 [id R]
 │     └─ x [id D]
 └─ Switch [id S]
    ├─ And [id T]
    │  ├─ Ge [id U]
    │  │  ├─ x [id D]
    │  │  └─ 2 [id G]
    │  └─ Le [id V]
    │     ├─ x [id D]
    │     └─ 3 [id P]
    ├─ Add [id W]
    │  ├─ 20.6 [id X]
    │  ├─ Mul [id Y]
    │  │  ├─ -18.333333333333332 [id Z]
    │  │  └─ x [id D]
    │  ├─ Mul [id BA]
    │  │  ├─ -0.6666666666666666 [id BB]
    │  │  └─ Pow [id O]
    │  │     └─ ···
    │  └─ Mul [id BC]
    │     ├─ 6.6 [id BD]
    │     └─ Pow [id L]
    │        └─ ···
    └─ Switch [id BE]
       ├─ And [id BF]
       │  ├─ Ge [id BG]
       │  │  ├─ x [id D]
       │  │  └─ 3 [id P]
       │  └─ Le [id BH]
       │     ├─ x [id D]
       │     └─ 5 [id BI]
       ├─ Add [id BJ]
       │  ├─ 53.0 [id BK]
       │  ├─ Mul [id BL]
       │  │  ├─ -50.733333333333334 [id BM]
       │  │  └─ x [id D]
       │  ├─ Mul [id BN]
       │  │  ├─ -1.8666666666666667 [id BO]
       │  │  └─ Pow [id O]
       │  │     └─ ···
       │  └─ Mul [id BP]
       │     ├─ 17.4 [id BQ]
       │     └─ Pow [id L]
       │        └─ ···
       └─ nan [id BR]
```

## Inserting PyMC random variables into an expression

The `SympyDeterministic` function works as a drop-in replacement for pm.Deterministic, except a `sympy` expression is
expected. It will automatically search the active model context for random variables corresponding to symbols in the
expression and make substitutions.

Here is an example using sympy to symbolically compute the inverse of a matrix, which is then used in a model:

```python
import sympy as sp
from sympy.abc import a, b, c, d

A = sp.Matrix([[a, b],
               [c, d]])
A_inv = sp.matrices.Inverse(A).doit()
```

`A_inv` is a sympy expression that computes each element in of the inverse of `A` symbolically:


$$
A^{-1} = \begin{pmatrix} \frac{d}{ad - bc} & -\frac{b}{ad - bc} \\ -\frac{c}{ad - bc} & \frac{a}{ad - bc} \end{pmatrix}
$$

We can now use this expression in a PyMC model:

```python
from sympytensor import SympyDeterministic
import pymc as pm

with pm.Model() as m:
    # We have to be careful to match the *names* of the pymc variables to the names of the sympy symbols!
    a_pm = pm.Normal('a')
    b_pm = pm.Normal('b')
    c_pm = pm.Normal('c')
    c_pm = pm.Normal('d')

    # Transform the sympy expression to a pytensor graph, then insert the random variables into it
    A_inv_pm = SympyDeterministic('A_inv', A_inv)

A_inv_pm.dprint()
```

This results in the following graph:

```text
Identity [id A] 'A_inv'
 └─ Join [id B]
    ├─ 0 [id C]
    ├─ ExpandDims{axis=0} [id D]
    │  └─ MakeVector{dtype='float64'} [id E]
    │     ├─ Mul [id F]
    │     │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
    │     │  │  ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B60A0>) [id H]
    │     │  │  ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │  │  ├─ 0 [id J]
    │     │  │  └─ 1.0 [id K]
    │     │  └─ Pow [id L]
    │     │     ├─ Add [id M]
    │     │     │  ├─ Mul [id N]
    │     │     │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
    │     │     │  │  │  ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B4040>) [id P]
    │     │     │  │  │  ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │     │  │  │  ├─ 0 [id Q]
    │     │     │  │  │  └─ 1.0 [id R]
    │     │     │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
    │     │     │  │     └─ ···
    │     │     │  └─ Mul [id S]
    │     │     │     ├─ -1 [id T]
    │     │     │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
    │     │     │     │  ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B5D20>) [id V]
    │     │     │     │  ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │     │     │  ├─ 0 [id W]
    │     │     │     │  └─ 1.0 [id X]
    │     │     │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
    │     │     │        ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B5EE0>) [id Z]
    │     │     │        ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │     │        ├─ 0 [id BA]
    │     │     │        └─ 1.0 [id BB]
    │     │     └─ -1 [id BC]
    │     └─ Mul [id BD]
    │        ├─ -1 [id BE]
    │        ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
    │        │  └─ ···
    │        └─ Pow [id BF]
    │           ├─ Add [id BG]
    │           │  ├─ Mul [id BH]
    │           │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
    │           │  │  │  └─ ···
    │           │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
    │           │  │     └─ ···
    │           │  └─ Mul [id BI]
    │           │     ├─ -1 [id BJ]
    │           │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
    │           │     │  └─ ···
    │           │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
    │           │        └─ ···
    │           └─ -1 [id BK]
    └─ ExpandDims{axis=0} [id BL]
       └─ MakeVector{dtype='float64'} [id BM]
          ├─ Mul [id BN]
          │  ├─ -1 [id BO]
          │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
          │  │  └─ ···
          │  └─ Pow [id BP]
          │     ├─ Add [id BQ]
          │     │  ├─ Mul [id BR]
          │     │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
          │     │  │  │  └─ ···
          │     │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
          │     │  │     └─ ···
          │     │  └─ Mul [id BS]
          │     │     ├─ -1 [id BT]
          │     │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
          │     │     │  └─ ···
          │     │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
          │     │        └─ ···
          │     └─ -1 [id BU]
          └─ Mul [id BV]
             ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
             │  └─ ···
             └─ Pow [id BW]
                ├─ Add [id BX]
                │  ├─ Mul [id BY]
                │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
                │  │  │  └─ ···
                │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
                │  │     └─ ···
                │  └─ Mul [id BZ]
                │     ├─ -1 [id CA]
                │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
                │     │  └─ ···
                │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
                │        └─ ···
                └─ -1 [id CB]
```

Commit message:

Fix release pipeline (#14)
* More hatchling updates

* Use hatch in release pipeline

* Update install instructions in README

* run pre-commit

* Remove benchmarks from CI

README.md, after:

# Sympytensor

Sympytensor converts sympy expressions to Pytensor graphs, with support for working with PyMC models. This allows you
to take advantage of sympy's symbolic computation capabilities together with pytensor's powerful symbolic graph
machinery.

# Installation

`sympytensor` is available on conda-forge, and can be installed with conda as follows:

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge sympytensor
```

Alternatively, it can be installed with pip:

```bash
pip install sympytensor
```

# Examples

## Writing expressions to pytensor
Two functions are provided to convert sympy expressions:

- `as_tensor` converts a sympy expression to a `pytensor` symbolic graph
- `pytensor_function` returns a compiled `pytensor.function` that computes the expression. Keyword arguments to
`pytensor.function` can be provided as `**kwargs`

Use sympy to compute 1d splines, then convert the splines to a symbolic pytensor variable:

```python
import sympy as sp
from sympytensor import as_tensor
from sympy.abc import x

x_data = [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
y_data = [3, 6, 5, 7, 9, 1]

s = sp.interpolating_spline(d=3, x=x, X=x_data, Y=y_data)
s_pt = as_tensor(s)
s_pt.dprint()
```

This generates the following function graph:
```text
Switch [id A]
 ├─ And [id B]
 │  ├─ Ge [id C]
 │  │  ├─ x [id D]
 │  │  └─ 0 [id E]
 │  └─ Le [id F]
 │     ├─ x [id D]
 │     └─ 2 [id G]
 ├─ Add [id H]
 │  ├─ 3 [id I]
 │  ├─ Mul [id J]
 │  │  ├─ True_div [id K]
 │  │  │  ├─ -33 [id L]
 │  │  │  └─ 5 [id M]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id N]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 2 [id O]
 │  ├─ Mul [id P]
 │  │  ├─ True_div [id Q]
 │  │  │  ├─ 23 [id R]
 │  │  │  └─ 15 [id S]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id T]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 3 [id U]
 │  └─ Mul [id V]
 │     ├─ True_div [id W]
 │     │  ├─ 121 [id X]
 │     │  └─ 15 [id Y]
 │     └─ x [id D]
 └─ Switch [id Z]
    ├─ And [id BA]
    │  ├─ Ge [id BB]
    │  │  ├─ x [id D]
    │  │  └─ 2 [id BC]
    │  └─ Le [id BD]
    │     ├─ x [id D]
    │     └─ 3 [id BE]
    ├─ Add [id BF]
    │  ├─ True_div [id BG]
    │  │  ├─ 103 [id BH]
    │  │  └─ 5 [id BI]
    │  ├─ Mul [id BJ]
    │  │  ├─ True_div [id BK]
    │  │  │  ├─ -55 [id BL]
    │  │  │  └─ 3 [id BM]
    │  │  └─ x [id D]
    │  ├─ Mul [id BN]
    │  │  ├─ True_div [id BO]
    │  │  │  ├─ -2 [id BP]
    │  │  │  └─ 3 [id BQ]
    │  │  └─ Pow [id BR]
    │  │     ├─ x [id D]
    │  │     └─ 3 [id BS]
    │  └─ Mul [id BT]
    │     ├─ True_div [id BU]
    │     │  ├─ 33 [id BV]
    │     │  └─ 5 [id BW]
    │     └─ Pow [id BX]
    │        ├─ x [id D]
    │        └─ 2 [id BY]
    └─ Switch [id BZ]
       ├─ And [id CA]
       │  ├─ Ge [id CB]
       │  │  ├─ x [id D]
       │  │  └─ 3 [id CC]
       │  └─ Le [id CD]
       │     ├─ x [id D]
       │     └─ 5 [id CE]
       ├─ Add [id CF]
       │  ├─ 53 [id CG]
       │  ├─ Mul [id CH]
       │  │  ├─ True_div [id CI]
       │  │  │  ├─ -761 [id CJ]
       │  │  │  └─ 15 [id CK]
       │  │  └─ x [id D]
       │  ├─ Mul [id CL]
       │  │  ├─ True_div [id CM]
       │  │  │  ├─ -28 [id CN]
       │  │  │  └─ 15 [id CO]
       │  │  └─ Pow [id CP]
       │  │     ├─ x [id D]
       │  │     └─ 3 [id CQ]
       │  └─ Mul [id CR]
       │     ├─ True_div [id CS]
       │     │  ├─ 87 [id CT]
       │     │  └─ 5 [id CU]
       │     └─ Pow [id CV]
       │        ├─ x [id D]
       │        └─ 2 [id CW]
       └─ nan [id CX]
```

Since we now have a pytensor graph, we can manipulate it like any other pytensor variable. For example, we can apply
graph simplifications using `rewrite_graph`:

```python
from pytensor.graph.rewriting import rewrite_graph
rewrite_graph(s_pt)
s_pt.dprint()
```

The next code block shows the simplified graph. Note that constant folding has been applied, and powers of `x` that
are used in multiple places are now longer computed multiple times (notice how `Pow [id L]` and `Pow [id O]` appear in
several places)

```text
Switch [id A]
 ├─ And [id B]
 │  ├─ Ge [id C]
 │  │  ├─ x [id D]
 │  │  └─ 0 [id E]
 │  └─ Le [id F]
 │     ├─ x [id D]
 │     └─ 2 [id G]
 ├─ Add [id H]
 │  ├─ 3.0 [id I]
 │  ├─ Mul [id J]
 │  │  ├─ -6.6 [id K]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id L]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 2 [id G]
 │  ├─ Mul [id M]
 │  │  ├─ 1.5333333333333334 [id N]
 │  │  └─ Pow [id O]
 │  │     ├─ x [id D]
 │  │     └─ 3 [id P]
 │  └─ Mul [id Q]
 │     ├─ 8.066666666666666 [id R]
 │     └─ x [id D]
 └─ Switch [id S]
    ├─ And [id T]
    │  ├─ Ge [id U]
    │  │  ├─ x [id D]
    │  │  └─ 2 [id G]
    │  └─ Le [id V]
    │     ├─ x [id D]
    │     └─ 3 [id P]
    ├─ Add [id W]
    │  ├─ 20.6 [id X]
    │  ├─ Mul [id Y]
    │  │  ├─ -18.333333333333332 [id Z]
    │  │  └─ x [id D]
    │  ├─ Mul [id BA]
    │  │  ├─ -0.6666666666666666 [id BB]
    │  │  └─ Pow [id O]
    │  │     └─ ···
    │  └─ Mul [id BC]
    │     ├─ 6.6 [id BD]
    │     └─ Pow [id L]
    │        └─ ···
    └─ Switch [id BE]
       ├─ And [id BF]
       │  ├─ Ge [id BG]
       │  │  ├─ x [id D]
       │  │  └─ 3 [id P]
       │  └─ Le [id BH]
       │     ├─ x [id D]
       │     └─ 5 [id BI]
       ├─ Add [id BJ]
       │  ├─ 53.0 [id BK]
       │  ├─ Mul [id BL]
       │  │  ├─ -50.733333333333334 [id BM]
       │  │  └─ x [id D]
       │  ├─ Mul [id BN]
       │  │  ├─ -1.8666666666666667 [id BO]
       │  │  └─ Pow [id O]
       │  │     └─ ···
       │  └─ Mul [id BP]
       │     ├─ 17.4 [id BQ]
       │     └─ Pow [id L]
       │        └─ ···
       └─ nan [id BR]
```

## Inserting PyMC random variables into an expression

The `SympyDeterministic` function works as a drop-in replacement for pm.Deterministic, except a `sympy` expression is
expected. It will automatically search the active model context for random variables corresponding to symbols in the
expression and make substitutions.

Here is an example using sympy to symbolically compute the inverse of a matrix, which is then used in a model:

```python
import sympy as sp
from sympy.abc import a, b, c, d

A = sp.Matrix([[a, b],
               [c, d]])
A_inv = sp.matrices.Inverse(A).doit()
```

`A_inv` is a sympy expression that computes each element in of the inverse of `A` symbolically:


$$
A^{-1} = \begin{pmatrix} \frac{d}{ad - bc} & -\frac{b}{ad - bc} \\ -\frac{c}{ad - bc} & \frac{a}{ad - bc} \end{pmatrix}
$$

We can now use this expression in a PyMC model:

```python
from sympytensor import SympyDeterministic
import pymc as pm

with pm.Model() as m:
    # We have to be careful to match the *names* of the pymc variables to the names of the sympy symbols!
    a_pm = pm.Normal('a')
    b_pm = pm.Normal('b')
    c_pm = pm.Normal('c')
    c_pm = pm.Normal('d')

    # Transform the sympy expression to a pytensor graph, then insert the random variables into it
    A_inv_pm = SympyDeterministic('A_inv', A_inv)

A_inv_pm.dprint()
```

This results in the following graph:

```text
Identity [id A] 'A_inv'
 └─ Join [id B]
    ├─ 0 [id C]
    ├─ ExpandDims{axis=0} [id D]
    │  └─ MakeVector{dtype='float64'} [id E]
    │     ├─ Mul [id F]
    │     │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
    │     │  │  ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B60A0>) [id H]
    │     │  │  ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │  │  ├─ 0 [id J]
    │     │  │  └─ 1.0 [id K]
    │     │  └─ Pow [id L]
    │     │     ├─ Add [id M]
    │     │     │  ├─ Mul [id N]
    │     │     │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
    │     │     │  │  │  ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B4040>) [id P]
    │     │     │  │  │  ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │     │  │  │  ├─ 0 [id Q]
    │     │     │  │  │  └─ 1.0 [id R]
    │     │     │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
    │     │     │  │     └─ ···
    │     │     │  └─ Mul [id S]
    │     │     │     ├─ -1 [id T]
    │     │     │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
    │     │     │     │  ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B5D20>) [id V]
    │     │     │     │  ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │     │     │  ├─ 0 [id W]
    │     │     │     │  └─ 1.0 [id X]
    │     │     │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
    │     │     │        ├─ RNG(<Generator(PCG64) at 0x1691B5EE0>) [id Z]
    │     │     │        ├─ NoneConst{None} [id I]
    │     │     │        ├─ 0 [id BA]
    │     │     │        └─ 1.0 [id BB]
    │     │     └─ -1 [id BC]
    │     └─ Mul [id BD]
    │        ├─ -1 [id BE]
    │        ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
    │        │  └─ ···
    │        └─ Pow [id BF]
    │           ├─ Add [id BG]
    │           │  ├─ Mul [id BH]
    │           │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
    │           │  │  │  └─ ···
    │           │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
    │           │  │     └─ ···
    │           │  └─ Mul [id BI]
    │           │     ├─ -1 [id BJ]
    │           │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
    │           │     │  └─ ···
    │           │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
    │           │        └─ ···
    │           └─ -1 [id BK]
    └─ ExpandDims{axis=0} [id BL]
       └─ MakeVector{dtype='float64'} [id BM]
          ├─ Mul [id BN]
          │  ├─ -1 [id BO]
          │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
          │  │  └─ ···
          │  └─ Pow [id BP]
          │     ├─ Add [id BQ]
          │     │  ├─ Mul [id BR]
          │     │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
          │     │  │  │  └─ ···
          │     │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
          │     │  │     └─ ···
          │     │  └─ Mul [id BS]
          │     │     ├─ -1 [id BT]
          │     │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
          │     │     │  └─ ···
          │     │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
          │     │        └─ ···
          │     └─ -1 [id BU]
          └─ Mul [id BV]
             ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
             │  └─ ···
             └─ Pow [id BW]
                ├─ Add [id BX]
                │  ├─ Mul [id BY]
                │  │  ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id O] 'a'
                │  │  │  └─ ···
                │  │  └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id G] 'd'
                │  │     └─ ···
                │  └─ Mul [id BZ]
                │     ├─ -1 [id CA]
                │     ├─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id U] 'b'
                │     │  └─ ···
                │     └─ normal_rv{"(),()->()"}.1 [id Y] 'c'
                │        └─ ···
                └─ -1 [id CB]
```
